Refactor APM getting started experience (#4661)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/tracing/enable/_index.md

---

> title: Enable trace collection in Datadog

Reviewer: the title is not entirely true since we don't enable trace collection in Datadog, we enable trace collection within the Datadog Agent, or through an other way.

kind: Documentation
aliases:
  - /tracing/languages/
  - /tracing/environments/
  - /tracing/setup/environment
  - /tracing/setup/first_class_dimensions
  - /tracing/getting_further/first_class_dimensions/
  - /agent/apm/
further_reading:
- link: "/agent/docker/apm"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Docker APM setup"
- link: "/integrations/amazon_ecs/#trace-collection"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "ECS EC2 APM setup"
- link: "/integrations/ecs_fargate/#trace-collection"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "ECS Fargate APM setup"
---

> To use APM, start by enabling trace collection in Datadog. You can do this in multiple different ways depending on your system setup: including using the [Datadog Agent locally](#Datadog-Agent), [on containers](#Containers), and [several other ways](#Other-ways-to collect-traces). For the full overview of all of the steps to set up APM, see the [APM overivew][1].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use APM, start by enabling trace collection in Datadog. You can do this in multiple different ways depending on your system setup: including using the [Datadog Agent locally](#datadog-agent), [on containers](#containers), and [several other ways](#other-ways-to collect-traces). For the full overview of all of the steps to set up APM, see the [APM overivew][1].
```

Reviewer: anchor must be all lowercase

> To use APM, start by enabling trace collection in Datadog. You can do this in multiple different ways depending on your system setup: including using the [Datadog Agent locally](#Datadog-Agent), [on containers](#Containers), and [several other ways](#Other-ways-to collect-traces). For the full overview of all of the steps to set up APM, see the [APM overivew][1].

Reviewer: You don't mention the environment section here.

> ## Datadog Agent

Reviewer: the title doesn't match the description made in the overview of the page, i think if we want to stay consistent with the Agent terminology this could be called `Host Agent`

> APM is enabled by default in Agent 6. Set `apm_non_local_traffic: true` if you are sending traces from a nonlocal environment (like a container). To get an overview of all the possible settings for APM, take a look at the Agent's [`datadog.example.yaml`][2] configuration file. For more information about the Datadog Agent, see the [dedicated doc page][3] or refer to the [`datadog.yaml` templates][4].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
APM is enabled by default in Agent 6. Set `apm_non_local_traffic: true` in your main [`datadog.yaml` configuration file](/agent/guide/agent-configuration-files/?tab=agentv6#agent-main-configuration-file) if you are sending traces from a nonlocal environment (like a container). 
To get an overview of all the possible settings for APM, take a look at the Agent's [`datadog.example.yaml`][2] configuration file. For more information about the Datadog Agent, see the [Agent documentation][3] or refer to the [`datadog.yaml` configuration template][4].
```

> Tracing metrics are sent to the Agent from your application: the application code instrumentation sends to the Agent every second (for example, see [the Python client][5]) and the Agent sends to the Datadog API every 10 seconds.

Reviewer: This is not true. Traces are sent thanks to the application instrumentation libs to the Agent which then calculates the Tracing metrics. (cf previous comment)

Reviewer: I think we could just remove this.

> ## Containers

Reviewer: to keep the Agent terminology this could be called `Containerized Agent`

See the specific setup instructions to ensure that the Agent is configured to receive traces in a containerized environment:

{{< partial name="apm/apm-containers.html" >}}

> Once your application is instrumented with the tracing client, by default traces will be sent to `localhost:8126`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: After having instrumented your application, the tracing client send traces to `localhost:8126` by default. 
```

Reviewer: maybe we should link to the page that explain to send traces to a remote agent (if it's possible, idk)

> ## Configure your environment

Reviewer: Why is the `configure your environment` section between the Agent and the other way.. 

Maybe the best approach here is to split this page in 3:

1. With the DD Agent 
1.1 Host Agent
1.2 Container Agent
2. Without the DD Agent
3. Configure your environment. 

what do you think?

Author: I like it

> There are several ways to specify an environment when reporting data:

Reviewer: you should reference this page: https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/advanced/setting_primary_tags_to_scope/#definition in order to give more context over the importance of the environment.

> 1. Host tag: Use a host tag with the format env:<ENVIRONMENT> to tag all traces from that Agent accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Host tag**: Use a host tag with the format `env:<ENVIRONMENT>` to tag all traces from that Agent accordingly.
```

> 2. Agent configuration: Override the default tag used by the Agent in the Agent configuration file. This tags all traces coming through the Agent, overriding the host tag value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Agent configuration**: Override the default tag used by the Agent in the Agent configuration file. This tags all traces coming through the Agent, overriding the host tag value.
```

>   apm_config:

Reviewer: this code example is not properly wrapped.

  env: <ENVIRONMENT>

> 4. Per trace: When submitting a single trace, specify an environment by tagging one of its spans with the metadata key env. This overrides the Agent configuration and the host tag’s value (if any). Consult the trace tagging documentationto learn how to assign a tag to your traces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. **Per trace**: When submitting a single trace, specify an environment by tagging one of its spans with the metadata key `env`. This overrides the Agent configuration and the host tag’s value (if any). Consult the [trace tagging documentation](/tracing/advanced/adding_metadata_to_spans/?tab=java) to learn how to assign a tag to your traces.
```

> ## Other ways to collect traces

Reviewer: I think this section should keep the tile logic as for the containers.

There are alternernates to the Agent and containers that you can use to collect traces.

### Lamda - X-Ray

For more information abut setting up Lamda - X-Ray, see the [Amazon X-Ray integration documentation][6]

### Heroku

Tracing is enabled by default when monitoring with Heroku. For more information abut configuring tracing for Heroku, see the [Heroku cloud documentation][7].

### Cloud Foundry

Tracing is enabled by default when monitoring with Cloud Foundry. For more information abut configuring tracing for Cloud Foundry, see the [Cloud Foundry documentation][8].

### Other(GAE, AAS, Serverless)

Datadog APM currently requires sending trace data to a running Agent. A workaround for enabling trace collection for a serverless setup is to setup a separate VM that accepts trace traffic externally.

## Next steps

For the full overview of all of the steps to set up APM, see the [APM overivew][1].

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: /tracing
[2]: https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-trace-agent/blob/6.4.1/datadog.example.yaml
[3]: /agent

> [4]: https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/blob/master/pkg/config/config_template.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[4]: https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/blob/6.12.x/pkg/config/config_template.yaml#L331
```

Reviewer: pining the agent version (even if this is not out yet)

Author: skipping this for now
